All right guys so we've looked at the at least the fundamentals of pretty much everything you'll need
to know as far as CSX goes.
However there's something called sass that is pretty popular in front end web development and definitely
worth learning.
So in this section we're going to go over what Sass is.
We're going to look at a few examples.
Talk about the different features that SAS includes and then in the next section we'll be creating our
final project which will be a portfolio Web site.
We'll be using SAS along with a bunch of other stuff that we've learned in the course.
All right.
So what is SAS it stands for syntactically awesome style sheets and it's a C CSX pre processor and you
may also see see it referred to as a CSX pre compiler or a C Ss extension or even a style sheet language.
Now the reason we use SAS is because it enhances CSX beyond its natural capabilities.
It allows us to use CSX more like an actual programming language and it can cut down repeated code.
It can allow us to structure things in a more efficient way.
SAS isn't the only pretty processor available.
There's also less there's stylists and there's some others however SAS is by far the most popular at
this point.
All right.
So how does SAS actually work.
Because this confuses a lot of beginners SAS is written in one of two file extensions.
So either dot SPSS or dot SAS.
Now SPSS is usually preferred and I'll talk about the difference between the two and a little bit but
I think what confuses people about SAS is that the browser doesn't actually read SAS files like it does
CSX.
You can't simply add a link tag and then include you know style dot SPSS like you can with a standard
CSX file at least not yet.
So it has to be compiled down to regular CSX and then that's what you include in your website or application.
All right.
Now as far as compiling goes there's many different programs to do this.
What I like to use is something called Node SAS which is installed with NPM which is the node package
manager and we can create a simple NPM script that will watch a certain folder where we create our SAS
files and then it will compile anything we write into regular CSX and put that in another folder.
Ok so we'll be using Node SAS for the most part but I'm also gonna show you an alternative graphical
program called koala which is a program you install and you have a graphical user interface and you
can compile SAS that way.
Now you also have VSO code extensions that can compile SAS.
You may want to look into that.
However I know that some students might not be using this code so I didn't want to go with a V.S. code
extension so what exactly does SAS offer us.
Why is it worth using so like I said SAS allows us to write CSX more like a dynamic programming language
it offers variables.
Now you're probably thinking well we aren't.
We've already seen variables in CSX.
However CSX variables are fairly new.
Also you saw the syntax it's not that pretty using the VAR and so on SAS variables are more like standard
programming language variables nesting is probably the main reason that I use SAS we can ness styles
if we have let's say a header tag and inside the header there's an H1 and maybe a well we can in our
in our SAS style sheets we can put header and then inside the curly braces we can put H1 you well if
we have some allies in the well we can nest those as well.
It's kind of hard to explain but once we get into it and you see it visually it will make a lot more
sense.
So you can basically structure your CSX like you do your age to AML in each time all is nested.
So you also have imports and partials now with regular CSX you can import other CSX files.
However it makes a separate request to the server to get each file what SAS does is it builds on top
of the current CSX import but instead of requiring crying a whole new HDP request to the server it will
take that file and it will combine it with the file you're importing so that you can serve a single
CSX file to the web browser.
So it's much more efficient and you can create as many different SAS files for different elements or
however you want to structure your CSX.
We also have functions and mix ins which are predefined styling.
We can set and call functions or Nixon's whenever we want.
This helps us stick to the drive principle when programming which stands for don't repeat yourself instead
of writing the same block of CSX over and over we can stick it in a function and use it.
Then we have conditionals which are basically if else statements so we can say you know do something
based on a certain condition.
We also have inheritance which allows us to keep our CSX dry because we can take a class and have another
class inherit its properties and styling.
We also have operators for calculations.
We have color functions to lighten or darken colors.
And these are great for hover effects so there's a lot that SAS offers.
All right now the last thing I want to talk about before we jump in is the difference between an SS
SS file and a SAS file.
So as you can see with the SAS file and in both our SAS is it's just the file extension.
But with this syntax you see there's no curly braces so it works on indents if you want to be inside
this a tag here you would indent in K and then for the hover if you want a style that you would indent
again and I'm not really too fond of this the style most people use this SPSS which as you can see is
is basically the same syntax SPSS except we have some additional features such as variables.
OK so we'll be using SPSS but if you want to look more and to the DOT SAS type of syntax you can do
that.
All right.
So enough with the slides.
I think that this will make a lot more sense once we jump in and we start to see it in action.
So in the next video I want to show you how we can set up an environment using Node SAS.